2608192-MA1800-Project

https://alaslett.github.io/2608192-ma1800-project/

a) My project focuses on how websites and media can influence our thoughts on a certain topic or individual. This idea is personal to me as I often find myself to be curious about certain stories or content I see online specifically down to thumbnails or interesting captions, I then find myself being underwhelmed by what I find as after research I find the content to be untrue and to of been a waste of my time. The intention behind my website is to create confusion and frustration within the user and for them to reflect on why they have made the decision to follow a specific link or be drawn to a particular image. 
My website features a variety of links in presented through images and text in order to heighten the users curiosity whilst using my website and make it easy to navigate. A last minute decision I decided to make was to include back buttons so that the user would be able to easily find different sections of my website. The intention behind the two fake pages is to waste the viewers time by including moving images over the text in order for them to understand why they have been navigated towards these webpages. I intended for my idea to be inspired by art from the early 2000s in order to create a nostalgic feel and be inspired by magazines during this time. My reasoning for this aestetic choice was due to reflecting on the covers I saw when I was younger - typically from The Sun and how the graphics they used made me curious to read the magazine or newspaper. For the real page I wanted it to be fun by including some music from a Nintendo game I used to play when I was younger to make the website more personaly and nostalgic for me. 

Some of the challenges I encountered whilst making my website was the overlaying of images ontop of images andtext over images. In order to fix this, I did a lot of research and referenced the Youtube channel "Bro Code" and W3schools in order to help me understand these elements. I found once i did this a few times I learned a lot and was able to understand the positioning of different elements. Another challenge I faced was understanding class properties and how I could style specific elements of my website such as positioning of text and images, I found the easiest way to do this was to break down my code and class each element that I wanted to be different from the previous and to not overcomplicate things by recycling previous elements I had used to help me develop my ideas.  

I was inspired by these case studies:
Moreshin Allahvari- 'Like pearls.' 2014-- I took inspirtaion from the gif elements and overall aestetic as it made me learn about how images and gifs can really influence the aestetic of the website. I also took inspiration from weeks 9 and 10 in how to style specific elements and make them move around the page whilst also referencing earlier lectures to help me with links and understanding how I can organise my webpage.I was also inspired by mySpace and Geocities from week three as I enjoy the nostalgic aestetic and personality that comes through. I found these webpages to be simple but fun with vibrant colours which is the intention I had for my website as I feel it links closely with the early 2000s aestetic.  

If I had more time and coding knowlege I would like to consider creating a storyline with my webpages where the user ends up following loads of different links to different webpages in order to convey the idea that the user is further digging for gossip and sparking their interestwhilst also causing reflection. It could have a deeper meaning where it reflects how much information we can gather from a simple google search and clicking on links to take us to different webpages to recieve further insight on a topic. I feel this would eventually lead to the user going back to the first page in order to reflect how data digging is a waste of time and how we are influenced to click on different and exciting things when we use the internet. With the real page I would like to explore my early 2000s idea further by creating a timemachine to take us back to the ealry 2000s and things within our culture. This would get the user to reflect more on life without developed technology and bring them back to the simplicity of childhood. 

References:
https://www.youtube.com/@BroCodez -Bro Code 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yefgBA1CecI - Typewriter effect on page 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gpALVT34lx4 - Disappearing text on page 2 
